Add F# usage docs (#2309)
fluentassertions/fluentassertions: docs/_pages/fsharp.md

---
title: F# Usage
permalink: /fsharp/
layout: single
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: "sidebar"
---

### F# usage

> We encourage F# developers to try out [Faqt](https://github.com/cmeeren/Faqt/), an assertion library inspired by FluentAssertions and made specifically for F#.
> 
> FluentAssertions is made with C# in mind. While it can be used from F#, the experience will not be as intended. In particular:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FluentAssertions was made with C# in mind. While it can be used from F#, the experience will not always be as intended.

For a more native F# experience we encourage F# developers to try out [Faqt](https://github.com/cmeeren/Faqt/), an assertion library inspired by FluentAssertions and made specifically for F#.

Some of the awkwardness you might hit with Fluent Assertions when using F# is:
```

Author: Might I suggest replacing "more native" with "better"?

Looks good except for the choice of the word "native". It's not technically incorrect, but fluent syntax isn't more or less native than the documented workarounds needed to make FluentAssertions work with F#.

Reviewer: Sure, especially all the adjectives used could probably be tuned.

Author: I think it's good except for "native" 👍 Is it easy for you to adjust your commit suggestion so I can commit it here, or would you rather I commit it myself locally and push?

Reviewer: adjusted

Author: In the last sentence, shouldn't it be `FluentAssertions` instead of `Fluent Assertions`?

Reviewer: Fixed

* To aid F#'s overload resolution, you often have to cast subject values. This does not work in all cases and will only give you a subset of assertions. For example:

  ```fsharp
  let x = [1; 2]
  x.Should().Contain(1, "") // Overload resolution error for "Should"
  (x :> seq<_>).Should().Contain(1, "") // OK, but only gives access to GenericCollectionAssertions<_>
  ```

  The need to cast will break your fluent chains, defeating some of the purpose of FluentAssertions.

* Sometimes not even casting will solve the issue, and you will have to forgo `Should` entirely and instead directly construct the correct assertion type. For example:

  ```fsharp
  let x = dict ["A", 1; "B", 2]
 
  // All of these give overload resolution errors for "Should"
  x.Should().ContainKey(1, "")
  (x :> IDictionary<_,_>).Should().ContainKey(1, "") 
  (x :> seq<KeyValuePair<_,_>>).Should().Contain(KeyValuePair("A", 1), "")
 
  // You have to construct the desired assertion directly
  GenericDictionaryAssertions<_, _, _>(x).ContainKey("A", "")
  GenericCollectionAssertions<_, _, _>(x).Contain(KeyValuePair("A", 1), "")
  ```

>   As with casting, the need to construct the assertion directly will break your fluent chains, defeating some of the purpose of FluentAssertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As with casting, the need to construct the assertion directly will break your fluent chains, defeating one of the key points of FluentAssertions.
```

* As can be seen above, the `because` parameter cannot be omitted when used from

>   F# ([#2225](https://github.com/fluentassertions/fluentassertions/issues/2225)). Improving this is [deemed out of scope](https://github.com/fluentassertions/fluentassertions/issues/2225#issuecomment-1636733116) since it would double the API surface of FluentAssertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  F# ([#2225](https://github.com/fluentassertions/fluentassertions/issues/2225)). Adding overloads with a fixed `because` is [deemed out of scope](https://github.com/fluentassertions/fluentassertions/issues/2225#issuecomment-1636733116) for the main FluentAssertions package since it would double the API surface.
```
